README.md, before:

# unisync

Mackup inspired tool to sync application settings, powered by unison

<!-- TOC -->
* [unisync](#unisync)
  * [What it is](#what-it-is)
  * [How is this different from mackup?](#how-is-this-different-from-mackup)
    * [Why?](#why)
  * [Install & Usage](#install--usage)
    * [Usage](#usage)
  * [How to add support for new apps?](#how-to-add-support-for-new-apps)
  * [How to re-generate config files from mackup?](#how-to-re-generate-config-files-from-mackup)
  * [Troubleshooting & Caveats](#troubleshooting--caveats)
  * [Credits](#credits)
<!-- TOC -->

## What it is

unisync helps you keep your application settings (plists, config folders, licenses) synchronized across machines. It does this by using `unison` to diff files, then copies them into a synced folder of your choice

## How is this different from mackup?

unisync does not use symlinks like [mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup). So instead of symlinking things into Dropbox/iCloud, unisync uses `unison` for diffing and copies the actual files.

**Hint**: `unisync` actually embeds the entire mackup app library (with exception of `xdg_configuration_files` for now), so any app that works with mackup should also work with unisync.

### Why?

I like unison and ran into issues where symlinks randomly broke without me noticing it. I wanted the file content to be identical no matter where it is, including the actual application settings folder.

The sync folder in the cloud acts as a backup and source for diffing, but the apps would continue to work as is if those were deleted.

## Install & Usage

Install `unison` and make sure it's in your path. On mac you can do:

```
brew install unison
```

Then

```
go install github.com/dvcrn/unisync@latest
```

Create a config file in ~/.config/unisync/unisync.yaml:

```yaml
targetPath: ~/.config/appconfigsync
preferDirection: target
apps:
  - dash
  - raycast
```

- `preferDirection` specifies which direction should get picked on conflict. Set it to `target` to have the targetPath take precedence (aka, your dropbox folder). Set it to `local` to say that your local apps should take prededence and override the sync store. Defaults to `target`

### Usage

```
Commands:
  sync - run sync between all enabled apps
  init-from-target - run/force initial sync, targetPath -> appPath
  init-from-local - run/force initial sync, local -> targetPath
  list - list all available apps
  info <appname> - show details of an app
```

The initial sync options **force** one way. For example if you want your local configuration to be overwritten on initial sync with whatever you have in your storage folder, run `init-from-target`

## How to add support for new apps?

Check out `apps/` in this repository. Apps are simple yaml files that explain what has to be copied:

```yaml
name: Raycast
friendlyName: raycast
files:
  - basePath: ~/Library/Preferences/
    includedFiles:
      - com.raycast.macos.plist
    ignoredFiles:
      - Name somethingToIgnore.plist
```

- `basePath` is the path that contains the files to sync. It can be `~/Library/Preferences/` when the file in question is just a preferences file, but also something like `~/Library/Application Support/Dash`
- `includedFiles` are all files **within** basePath to process
- `ignoredFiles` is the opposite of `includedFiles` - stuff you don't want to get processed. Has to be Name, Path, BelowPath or Regex

## How to re-generate config files from mackup?

There is a handy make command that you can use, that'll update the git submodule, then run helper script

```bash
make apps/mackup
```

## Troubleshooting & Caveats

- Apps that are currently running will override the config files usually when they're quit
- Mackup apps haven't been thorougly tested yet. Stuff could not working as intended

## Credits

A huge chunk of the apps is generated off the [mackup app library](https://github.com/lra/mackup/tree/master/mackup/applications), which in turn is thanks to a huge number of contributors. Thanks to all of you!

Commit message:

Add install-agent / remove-agent commands

README.md, after:

# unisync

Mackup inspired tool to sync application settings, powered by unison

<!-- TOC -->
* [unisync](#unisync)
  * [What it is](#what-it-is)
  * [How is this different from mackup?](#how-is-this-different-from-mackup)
    * [Why?](#why)
  * [Install](#install)
  * [Usage](#usage)
  * [Have unisync run automatically in the background](#have-unisync-run-automatically-in-the-background)
  * [How to add support for new apps?](#how-to-add-support-for-new-apps)
  * [How to re-generate config files from mackup?](#how-to-re-generate-config-files-from-mackup)
  * [Troubleshooting & Caveats](#troubleshooting--caveats)
  * [Credits](#credits)
<!-- TOC -->

## What it is

unisync helps you keep your application settings (plists, config folders, licenses) synchronized across machines. It does this by using `unison` to diff files, then copies them into a synced folder of your choice

## How is this different from mackup?

unisync does not use symlinks like [mackup](https://github.com/lra/mackup). So instead of symlinking things into Dropbox/iCloud, unisync uses `unison` for diffing and copies the actual files.

**Hint**: `unisync` actually embeds the entire mackup app library (with exception of `xdg_configuration_files` for now), so any app that works with mackup should also work with unisync.

### Why?

I like unison and ran into issues where symlinks randomly broke without me noticing it. I wanted the file content to be identical no matter where it is, including the actual application settings folder.

The sync folder in the cloud acts as a backup and source for diffing, but the apps would continue to work as is if those were deleted.

## Install

Install `unison` and make sure it's in your path. On mac you can do:

```
brew install unison
```

Then

```
go install github.com/dvcrn/unisync@latest
```

Create a config file in ~/.config/unisync/unisync.yaml:

```yaml
targetPath: ~/.config/appconfigsync
preferDirection: target
apps:
  - dash
  - raycast
```

- `preferDirection` specifies which direction should get picked on conflict. Set it to `target` to have the targetPath take precedence (aka, your dropbox folder). Set it to `local` to say that your local apps should take prededence and override the sync store. Defaults to `target`

## Usage

```
Commands:
  sync - run sync between all enabled apps
  init-from-target - run/force initial sync, targetPath -> appPath
  init-from-local - run/force initial sync, local -> targetPath
  list - list available apps
  info <appname> - show details of an app

LaunchAgent management
  install-agent - installs LaunchAgent to automatically run in the background
  remove-agent - unload and remove agent

```

The initial sync options **force** one way. For example if you want your local configuration to be overwritten on initial sync with whatever you have in your storage folder, run `init-from-target`

## Have unisync run automatically in the background

`unisync` comes with a LaunchAgent you can install, that will run `unisync` every 10 minutes:

```
unisync install-agent
```

This will add and load a new LaunchAgent config into `Library/LaunchAgents/sh.d.unisync.plist` 

## How to add support for new apps?

Check out `apps/` in this repository. Apps are simple yaml files that explain what has to be copied:

```yaml
name: Raycast
friendlyName: raycast
files:
  - basePath: ~/Library/Preferences/
    includedFiles:
      - com.raycast.macos.plist
    ignoredFiles:
      - Name somethingToIgnore.plist
```

- `basePath` is the path that contains the files to sync. It can be `~/Library/Preferences/` when the file in question is just a preferences file, but also something like `~/Library/Application Support/Dash`
- `includedFiles` are all files **within** basePath to process
- `ignoredFiles` is the opposite of `includedFiles` - stuff you don't want to get processed. Has to be Name, Path, BelowPath or Regex

## How to re-generate config files from mackup?

There is a handy make command that you can use, that'll update the git submodule, then run helper script

```bash
make apps/mackup
```

## Troubleshooting & Caveats

- Apps that are currently running will override the config files usually when they're quit
- Mackup apps haven't been thorougly tested yet. Stuff could not working as intended

## Credits

A huge chunk of the apps is generated off the [mackup app library](https://github.com/lra/mackup/tree/master/mackup/applications), which in turn is thanks to a huge number of contributors. Thanks to all of you!
